# 摘要与结论

## Abstract

. The global evolution of an artificially injected relativistic electron beam is simulated and examined. The study focuses on injections originating in the upper ionosphere, magnetically mirroring above the lower atmosphere where significant energy loss occurs, and so a long-lived population arises in the inner magnetosphere from this particle source. This investigation is conducted by solving the bounce-averaged relativistic kinetic equation for the electron distribution function for various  $L$  shells. It is found that the beam quickly spreads in MLT due to differential drift rates, eventually morphing into a fairly uniform shell around the Earth. Wave interactions are comparable to collisional losses in reducing the beam content. It is also found that the beam total particle loss rate is a complicated function of  $L$  and, for the chosen conditions, the total beam particle counts are 73%, 77%, and 52% of the initial count at  $t = 24$  hours after injection for  $L = 2, 3,$  and 4, respectively. The loss rates at this time are ~1%/hour (of the remaining beam strength) and very slowly decreasing with time. These loss rates and other features of the beam evolution are discussed in detail. There are now four distinct stages recognized in the evolution of an injected relativistic beam: (1) the immediate loss of particles injected at pitch angles mapping to the lower thermosphere; (2) the initial loss of particles injected right next to the loss cone by collisional scattering; (3) the continuation of this collisional loss along with the spread of the beam to all local times by differential drift rates; and (4) the transformation of the beam into a fairly uniform shell covering all energies and all local times, with the loss rate mainly governed by wave scattering. Other stages may exist beyond the 1-day limit set on these simulations. While the study dwells on beam dynamics, it is also a general examination of the leading edge population next to the loss cone. This has implications for the physics of the naturally occurring radiation belt particles, as this region of phase space regulates the actual precipitation of these particles into the atmosphere. The applicability of this model for studying the natural radiation environment around the Earth is also pondered.

## Conclusion

In order to examine the global evolution of an artificially injected relativistic electron beam, the bounce-averaged relativistic kinetic equation was solved for the electron distribution function for various scenarios. It was found that the beam quickly spreads in MLT due to differential drift rates. This, combined with energy loss and pitch angle diffusion, eventually transforms the beam into a fairly uniform shell around the Earth. It was determined that collisional interactions are ini

tially more important than wave interactions, but eventually drop in significance and the loss rate is dominated by wave scattering. It was also found that the beam total particle loss rate is a complicated function of  $L$  and initial condition parameters, and for the chosen conditions, a beam at  $L = 4$  drops much faster than a injected beam at  $L = 2$  or 3. These loss rates are  $\sim 0.7$  to  $1.5\%/$  hour one day after injection (as a percent of the remaining beam particles), with the beam total particle counts at 73, 77, and  $52\%$  of the initial count at this time for the three  $L$  values. This rather strange  $L$  dependence of the particle counts was explained by examining the loss mechanisms and injection conditions. The loss of particles is initially 2 to 5 times faster than the rate after 1 day, but this decay rate decreases throughout the simulation. Also during the first day after injection, the beam transforms from a point source into a uniform shell around the planet. Other interesting features in the distribution function were also examined, such as leading edge development in the pitch angle-MLT plots, banded structures in the energy and pitch angle spectra, and features of the beam decay.

There are at least four stages in the evolution of an injected beam. The first is the loss of particles after the first interhemispheric traversal, where the particles injected into the loss cone are immediately lost to the lower thermosphere and mesosphere. The next stage is the initial loss of particles injected right next to the loss cone pitch angle via collisional scattering in the upper atmosphere. These first two stages were discussed by Khazanov et al. [1999]. The next stage is the still rapid but now slower loss of particles from upper atmospheric collisions accompanied by differential drift spreading of the beam around the Earth and a slow diffusion into the trapped zone. The fourth stage is the slower loss process of particles from deeper in the injection region, coincident with the transformation of the beam into a continuous and nearly uniform shell around the Earth. These two stages were discussed in this study. Other stages that could exist beyond these ones include shell broadening by radial diffusion and the approach to an asymptotic decay rate.

While this study focused on the dynamics of relativistic electrons from an anthropogenic source, the model is fully capable of examining the dynamics of particles from natural sources. This relevance is particularly true for the radiation belts, and a general interpretation of this investigation is the study of the dynamics of radiation belt electrons near the loss cone edge. This model is also well suited for radiation belt modeling because of its ability to resolve magnetic local time effects in the distribution function. The acceleration mechanisms responsible for energizing the source electron population up into the relativistic range is a subject of considerable debate within the space physics community. The location and timing of this source population within the inner magnetosphere during a storm or substorm is crucial to their eventual energization. As shown in this study, a spatially localized injection can take many hours, perhaps a day, to transform into a smooth shell of particles around the Earth, and Liemohn et al. [1998] showed that a banded energy structure can persist for many days in an electron population of lower energy. During this developmental time, when the distribution is azimuthally asymmetric, is when the critical processes impart their energy to the electrons. Furthermore, these processes (such as collisional, wave, electric field, and magnetic field interactions) often have large local time dependencies, and an interaction fully resolved local time could reveal influences to the elec

trons that would not necessarily be observed in an azimuthally averaged interaction. Therefore we feel that spatial azimuthal resolution of the relativistic electron distribution function is important, and this newly developed model has the ability to perform such a calculation.

Acknowledgments. This work was partially supported by the U.S. Air Force under contract number F19628-K-0004, by the National Science Foundation under contract ATM-9800830 and by NASA under contracts NAG5-6976, NAG5-5030, NAG5-5030, and NAG5-4771. The authors would like to especially thank Greg Ginet at the Air Force Research Laboratory, Hanscom AFB.

Janet G. Luhmann thanks Robert W. Abel and another referee for their assistance in evaluating this paper.

